ACD-416 (#6)
Actindo-AG/Documentation: RetailSuiteAccounting/Integration/08_ManageCostAccounting.md

# Manage the cost accounting

Cost accounting is a method to identify, measure and record all costs associated with a company's production process. It serves as an internal controlling tool to assess the different business costs and determine profitability by department, producer, client, product, or other criteria.   

A cost center is a department or a function within a company to which costs may be allocated, such as HR, Accounting or IT. It can also be defined at a smaller level according to management needs, for instance involving a particular job position or machine.  

A cost object is a product or service in relation to which costs are ascertained. The cost object is determined by the nature of business. It can be the final item produced or a part of it, but can also be expressed differently, for instance in batches of items.  

Both cost centers and cost objects can be created, edited, and deleted in the *Cost accounting* tab.

##  Create a cost center

You can create a cost center that is not yet available in the system.

#### Prerequisites

A fiscal year has been selected, see [Select the fiscal year](../Operation/01_SelectFiscalYear.md).

#### Procedure

> *Accounting > Settings > Tab COST ACCOUNTING > Drop-down option Cost1 - Cost center*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Accounting > Settings > Tab COST ACCOUNTING*
```

![Cost 1 - Cost center](../../Assets/Screenshots/RetailSuiteAccounting/Settings/CostAccounting/CostAccounting01.png "[Cost 1 - Cost center]")

1. Click the *Cost accounting* left and middle drop-down lists and select the desired fiscal year and posting period.

> 2. Enter a number in the *Cost center* field.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Enter a number in the *Cost center* field in the bottom input lines.  
```

>   > [Info] If a number is entered that is already in used, an error message is displayed.

Reviewer: in use or used...

>   > [Info] If a number is entered that is already in used, an error message is displayed.

Author: ```suggestion
  > [Info] If a number is entered that is already in use, an error message is displayed.
```

> 3. Enter a name in the *Description* field.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Enter a name for the cost centre in the *Description* field.  
```

4. If desired, enter any additional information in the *Text* field.

5. If desired, click the *Inactive* radio button to deactivate the cost center temporarily. By default, the radio button is set to *Active*. The inactive cost center is then locked for postings.

>   > [Info] If a cost object has already been posted to or allocated to a cost center, it cannot be set to inactive. A warning message is then displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  > [Info] If a cost object has already been posted to or allocated to a cost center,  the cost centre cannot be set to inactive. A warning message is then displayed.
```

6. Click the [SAVE & NEW] button.  

> A small pop-up window confirms that the new cost center has been saved. The new cost center is displayed in the list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *Saved* pop-up window is displayed. The cost center has been saved and is displayed in the list.
```

  ![Saved](../../Assets/Screenshots/RetailSuiteAccounting/Settings/CostAccounting/Saved.png "[Saved]")

##  Edit a cost center

You can edit a cost center, for example if it needs to be deactivated.  

>   > [Note] Be aware that any changes made to a cost center may have consequences for the posting process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  > [Caution] Be aware that any changes made to a cost center may have consequences for the posting process.
```

#### Prerequisites

- A fiscal year has been selected, see [Select the fiscal year](../Operation/01_SelectFiscalYear.md).
- A cost center has been created, see [Create a cost center](#create-a-cost-center).

#### Procedure

> *Accounting > Settings > Tab COST ACCOUNTING > Drop-down option Cost1 - Cost center*

Author: ```suggestion
*Accounting > Settings > Tab COST ACCOUNTING*
```

![Cost 1 - Cost center](../../Assets/Screenshots/RetailSuiteAccounting/Settings/CostAccounting/CostAccounting01.png "[Cost 1 - Cost center]")

> 1. Click the *Cost accounting* left and middle drop-down lists and select the desired fiscal year and posting period.

Author: ```suggestion
1. In the header, configure the following options:
  - Click the left *Cost accounting* drop-down list and select the desired fiscal year. All available fiscal years are displayed.   
  - Click the middle *Cost accounting* drop-down list and select the desired posting period. All available posting periods are displayed.
  - Click the right *Cost accounting* drop-down list and select the **Cost 1 - cost centre** option. 
  All existing cost centres are displayed in the list below. The input lines at the bottom are displayed for a cost centre.
```

2. Select the cost center to be edited in the list.  

> The cost center details are displayed in the input fields.

Reviewer: vgl create cost centre

3. Make any necessary changes.  

  > [Info] The cost center number cannot be changed. If you try to change the number, a new cost center will be created and added to the list.

4. Click the [SAVE] button.  

> A small pop-up window confirms that the edited cost center has been saved. The edited cost center is displayed in the list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *Saved* pop-up window is displayed. All changes have been saved. The edited cost center is displayed in the list.
```

  ![Saved](../../Assets/Screenshots/RetailSuiteAccounting/Settings/CostAccounting/Saved.png "[Saved]")

##  Delete a cost center

You can delete a cost center, for example if it is no longer applicable.

 > [Info] If a date is displayed in the *Active from* column, it means that the cost center is currently being used and, therefore, cannot be deleted.

#### Prerequisites

- A fiscal year has been selected, see [Select the fiscal year](../Operation/01_SelectFiscalYear.md).
- A cost center has been created, see [Create a cost center](#create-a-cost-center).

#### Procedure

*Accounting > Settings > Tab COST ACCOUNTING > Drop-down option Cost1 - Cost center*

![Cost 1 - Cost center](../../Assets/Screenshots/RetailSuiteAccounting/Settings/CostAccounting/CostAccounting01.png "[Cost 1 - Cost center]")

> 1. Click the *Cost accounting* left and middle drop-down lists and select the desired fiscal year and posting period.  

Reviewer: siehe create cost center

> 1. Click the *Cost accounting* left and middle drop-down lists and select the desired fiscal year and posting period.  

Author: ```suggestion
1. In the header, configure the following options:
  - Click the left *Cost accounting* drop-down list and select the desired fiscal year. All available fiscal years are displayed.   
  - Click the middle *Cost accounting* drop-down list and select the desired posting period. All available posting periods are displayed.
  - Click the right *Cost accounting* drop-down list and select the **Cost 1 - cost centre** option. 
  All existing cost centres are displayed in the list below. The input lines at the bottom are displayed for a cost centre. 
```

2. Select the cost center to be deleted in the list.  
The cost center details are displayed in the input fields.

  > [Note] Be aware that the cost center will be deleted permanently.

3. Click the [DELETE] button.  

> A small pop-up window confirms that the cost center has been deleted. The deleted cost center is no longer displayed in the list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *Deleted* pop-up window is displayed. The cost center has been deleted and is removed from the list.
```

  ![Deleted](../../Assets/Screenshots/RetailSuiteAccounting/Settings/CostAccounting/Deleted.png "[Deleted]")

##  Create a cost object

You can create a cost object that is not yet available in the system.

#### Prerequisites

A fiscal year has been selected, see [Select the fiscal year](../Operation/01_SelectFiscalYear.md).

#### Procedure

> *Accounting > Settings > Tab COST ACCOUNTING > Drop-down option Cost2 - Cost object*

Author: ```suggestion
*Accounting > Settings > Tab COST ACCOUNTING*
```

![Cost 2 - Cost object](../../Assets/Screenshots/RetailSuiteAccounting/Settings/CostAccounting/CostAccounting02.png "[Cost 2 - Cost object]")

> 1. Click the *Cost accounting* left and middle drop-down lists and select the desired fiscal year and posting period.

Author: ```suggestion
1. In the header, configure the following options:
  - Click the left *Cost accounting* drop-down list and select the desired fiscal year. All available fiscal years are displayed.   
  - Click the middle *Cost accounting* drop-down list and select the desired posting period. All available posting periods are displayed.
  - Click the right *Cost accounting* drop-down list and select the **Cost 2 - cost object** option. 
  All existing cost objects are displayed in the list below. The input lines at the bottom are displayed for a cost object.
```

> 2. Enter a number in the *Cost object* field.  

Reviewer: vgl create cost center

> 2. Enter a number in the *Cost object* field.  

Author: ```suggestion
2. Enter a number in the *Cost object* field in the bottom input lines.  
```

>   > [Info] If a number is entered that is already in used, an error message is displayed.

Reviewer: used/in use

>   > [Info] If a number is entered that is already in used, an error message is displayed.

Author: ```suggestion
  > [Info] If a number is entered that is already in use, an error message is displayed.
```

3. Enter a name in the *Description* field.  

4. If desired, enter any additional information in the *Text* field.

5. If necessary, enter a debtor number in the *Debtor* field. If the debtor number is not known, click the [SEARCH] button to display the *Select address* window containing a list of all customers.

6. If desired, click the drop-down list and select a ProfitCenter. All available ProfitCenters are displayed in the drop-down list. By default, the *0 - No group* option is displayed.

  > [Info] If necessary, click the [EDIT] button to create or edit a ProfitCenter.

7. If desired, click the *Inactive* radio button to deactivate the cost object temporarily. By default, the radio button is set to *Active*. The inactive cost object is then locked for postings.

>  > [Info] If a cost object has already been posted to or allocated to a cost center, it cannot be set to inactive. A warning message is then displayed.

Author: ```suggestion
 > [Info] If a cost object has already been posted to or allocated to a cost center, the cost object cannot be deactivated. A warning message is then displayed.
```

8. Click the [SAVE & NEW] button.  

> A small pop-up window confirms that the new cost object has been saved. The new cost object is displayed in the list.

Author: ```suggestion
The *Saved* pop-up window is displayed. The cost object has been saved and is displayed in the list.
```

  ![Saved](../../Assets/Screenshots/RetailSuiteAccounting/Settings/CostAccounting/Saved.png "[Saved]")

##  Edit a cost object

You can edit a cost object, for example if it needs to be deactivated.  

>   > [Note] Be aware that any changes made to a cost object may   have consequences for the posting process.

Author: ```suggestion
  > [Note] Be aware that any changes made to a cost object may have consequences for the posting process.
```

>   > [Note] Be aware that any changes made to a cost object may   have consequences for the posting process.

Author: ```suggestion
  > [Caution] Be aware that any changes made to a cost object may   have consequences for the posting process.
```

#### Prerequisites

- A fiscal year has been selected, see [Select the fiscal year](../Operation/01_SelectFiscalYear.md).

> - A cost object has been created, see [Create a cost object](#create-a-cost-unit).

Author: ```suggestion
- A cost object has been created, see [Create a cost object](#create-a-cost-object).
```

#### Procedure

> *Accounting > Settings > Tab COST ACCOUNTING > Drop-down option Cost2 - Cost object*

Author: ```suggestion
*Accounting > Settings > Tab COST ACCOUNTING*
```

![Cost 2 - Cost object](../../Assets/Screenshots/RetailSuiteAccounting/Settings/CostAccounting/CostAccounting02.png "[Cost 2 - Cost object]")

1. Click the *Cost accounting* left and middle drop-down lists and select the desired fiscal year and posting period.

2. Select the cost object to be edited in the list.  
  The cost object details are displayed in the input fields.

3. Make any necessary changes.  

  > [Info] The cost object number cannot be changed. If you try to change the number, the edited cost object will replace the existing one.

[comment]: <> (Vielleicht ist das ein Bug? Komisches Verhalten. Wie soll es funktionieren? RS FH)

4. Click the [SAVE] button.  

> A small pop-up window confirms that the edited cost object has been saved. The edited cost object is displayed in the list.

Author: ```suggestion
The *Saved* pop-up window is displayed. All changes have been saved. The edited cost object is displayed in the list.
```

  ![Saved](../../Assets/Screenshots/RetailSuiteAccounting/Settings/CostAccounting/Saved.png "[Saved]")

##  Delete a cost object

> You can delete a cost object, for example if it is no longer applicable.

Author: ```suggestion
You can delete a cost object, for example if it is no longer applicable. If a posting period is displayed in the *Active from* column, it means that the cost object has been posted to and, therefore, cannot be deleted. A warning message with the notice "The cost object (number) cannot be deleted: it is distributed to the cost center/cost object" is displayed.
```

>   > [Info] If a posting period is displayed in the *Active from* column, it means that the cost object has been posted to and, therefore, cannot be deleted. A warning message with the notice "The cost object (number) cannot be deleted: it is distributed to the cost center/cost object" is displayed.

Author: ```suggestion
  
```

  [comment]: <> (Check, warum / warum nicht kann man das löschen... In Verteilungstabelle? Mit Buchungen verlinkt? Auch wenn keine "Aktiv ab" angezeigt, bekommt man eine Fehlermeldung.)

#### Prerequisites

- A fiscal year has been selected, see [Select the fiscal year](../Operation/01_SelectFiscalYear.md).

> - A cost object has been created, see [Create a cost object](#create-a-cost-unit).

Author: ```suggestion
- A cost object has been created, see [Create a cost object](#create-a-cost-object).
```

#### Procedure

> *Accounting > Settings > Tab COST ACCOUNTING > Drop-down option Cost2 - Cost object*

Author: ```suggestion
*Accounting > Settings > Tab COST ACCOUNTING*
```

![Cost 2 - Cost object](../../Assets/Screenshots/RetailSuiteAccounting/Settings/CostAccounting/CostAccounting02.png "[Cost 2 - Cost object]")

> 1. Click the *Cost accounting* left and middle drop-down lists and select the desired fiscal year and posting period.  

Author: ```suggestion
1. In the header, configure the following options:
  - Click the left *Cost accounting* drop-down list and select the desired fiscal year. All available fiscal years are displayed.   
  - Click the middle *Cost accounting* drop-down list and select the desired posting period. All available posting periods are displayed.
  - Click the right *Cost accounting* drop-down list and select the **Cost 2 - cost object** option. 
  All existing cost objects are displayed in the list below. The input lines at the bottom are displayed for a cost object.  
```

2. Select the cost object to be deleted in the list.  
The cost object details are displayed in the input fields.

  > [Note] Be aware that the cost object will be deleted permanently.

3. Click the [DELETE] button.  

> A small pop-up window confirms that the cost object has been deleted. The deleted cost object is no longer displayed in the list.

Author: ```suggestion
The *Deleted* pop-up window is displayed. The cost object has been deleted and is removed from the list.
```

[!!User Interface Cost accounting](../UserInterface/02e_CostAccounting.md)  

# Manage the cost accounting

Cost accounting is a method to identify, measure and record all costs associated with a company's production process. It serves as an internal controlling tool to assess the different business costs and determine profitability by department, producer, client, product, or other criteria.   

A cost center is a department or a function within a company to which costs may be allocated, such as HR, Accounting or IT. It can also be defined at a smaller level according to management needs, for instance involving a particular job position or machine.  

A cost object is a product or service in relation to which costs are ascertained. The cost object is determined by the nature of business. It can be the final item produced or a part of it, but can also be expressed differently, for instance in batches of items.  

You can create, edit and delete both cost centers and cost objects.

> 

Reviewer 2: While posting an accounting entry you can either fill in cost center (Kost1) or cost object (Kost2).

 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/118272226/212322700-d6fd2416-d4ae-482d-a5a2-afe849debee4.png)
